Good afternoon.
I'm Ken Orr.
I'm the manager of the
Xcode debugger UI team.
I saw a very interesting
talk the other day.
It was a TED talk.
Those are the technology, entertainment,
and design talks.
And it was a talk about how to use a
paper towel by a guy named Joe Smith.
And he was showing how we could
vastly reduce the amount of paper
waste we produce each year by doing
just a couple things differently
when we go to dry our hands.
Now, what intrigued me so much about
Joe's talk was that he was
presenting in such a prominent
venue about such an ordinary task.
You know, and that got me thinking,
that is exactly what I'm
here to do today with you,
to talk about debugging,
something that's second
nature probably to most of us,
something that seems so ordinary,
but it's still a task that has many
simple things that we can do to eliminate
waste and become more effective.
And so when you leave here today,
I want you to be able to just tweak
a few things about how you work,
and that small amount of change
will add up to a large amount
of saved time over the long run.
Now, what is it that we're
doing when we're debugging?
Well, probably a number of things,
but two of the most important
are we're trying to analyze
the control flow of our app,
so what lines of code
are being hit and when.
And then we're also trying
to evaluate correctness.
Are we showing the right
information to our users?
And Xcode provides us with some fantastic
and very powerful tools to do this,
namely breakpoints and
variables in the variables view.
So today,
I want to spend some time talking
about these and show you how you
can be more effective in using
these tools that Xcode provides you.
So we'll start by talking about
breakpoints and breakpoint actions.
Now, before we do that, let me ask,
how many people are
not using breakpoints?
Or perhaps you don't know what they are.
I know there's got to be somebody,
but in fact, my own brother,
who's in academia and also
does some development,
was not using breakpoints until I gave
him a private demo of these and showed
him how it would change his life.
But that meant he was
doing a lot of this.
And this is extremely inefficient.
So you have to first find the line of
code where you're having a problem.
You have to stop running.
You have to insert the log statement.
You have to build.
You have to run.
You have to get back
to that line of code.
You have to evaluate what's going on.
Then you're not done.
You need to stop.
And then you need to take this out,
because if you don't,
you're going to leave that
debugging cruft in there,
and we don't want that.
So this is an extremely
inefficient way to debug.
So we do not want you to do this.
And in fact, if you use breakpoints
and breakpoint actions,
you'll never have to put another
NS log in your code again.
So let's start back at the very beginning
and talk about how to create breakpoints.
Well, that's very easy in Xcode 4.
Of course,
you can just simply click in the
source code editor margin there,
the gutter.
And alternatively,
if you're a keyboard person,
you can press Command-backslash.
Now,
deleting a breakpoint is just as easy.
You can drag that out.
A lot of people don't know that,
but that's a very easy
way to delete breakpoints.
And now,
once you've created these breakpoints,
you've taken the time to set these,
you're probably gonna
want to manage them.
So you're gonna want to
see them all in one place.
And the place you do that
is the breakpoint navigator.
So you get to the breakpoint
navigator by clicking this
little breakpoint icon here.
Or you can also press Command + 6.
And let's take a closer look
at the breakpoint navigator.
So if you're using a workspace,
then by default, all of your breakpoints,
they live with the workspace.
So they're attached to the workspace.
But they don't have to stay that way.
So workspaces are they're
composed of projects,
one or more projects.
And, in fact,
you can move breakpoints to live with
the project instead of the workspace.
So here we can move the breakpoint.
There's only one project here.
But I'm going to move it
to the sketch project.
Now, why would you want to do this?
Well, there's a couple reasons.
So first,
you may want to open that project
up outside of the workspace.
So if you want to do that
and you want the breakpoints
to come along for the ride,
then you're going to want to
associate the breakpoint with the
project rather than the workspace.
And the second reason is that
oftentimes the project will be
associated with many workspaces.
And if that's the case and
you want the breakpoint to be
associated with the project,
this is how you achieve that.
Now, we can also share breakpoints.
A lot of people don't know this,
but sharing breakpoints
means that anybody can have
access to the breakpoint.
So anybody that opens the project or
workspace will see that breakpoint.
And this is also useful
for a couple reasons.
You can, if your team, for example,
has a number of breakpoints
that apply to everybody,
and in fact some of the
teams at Apple work this way,
then you can share that set
of breakpoints and then all
your team members can see them.
Also, the way I use these is if I'm
providing reproduction steps for a bug,
I will write up the steps,
then set a shared breakpoint,
zip that all up,
send it to the person that's
going to reproduce the bug,
and now they can see exactly
where in the code they need to
land in order to see that issue.
So a great tool to do that.
So here we've created
our shared breakpoint.
And then there's one last place
that we can stash our breakpoints,
and that's in this special user group.
So the user group is a special
group that lives on your machine.
So it's associated
with your user account,
and now any breakpoints you put in here
will be available from any projects
and any workspaces that you open up.
And we'll see in just a
minute why this is useful.
So here we've moved
that to the user group.
Okay, also in the breakpoint navigator,
we can create a couple
special kinds of breakpoints.
So, namely, the exception breakpoint
and the symbolic breakpoint.
So an exception breakpoint
is one that's hit any time an
exception is thrown or caught.
Now, if you'll remember in
Objective-C and in Cocoa,
we don't use exceptions for control flow,
like you might in .NET or Java,
but in fact,
they're used only for exceptional cases.
So they're really cases
that you want to debug.
That's when we'll use those.
Now, when you create one of
these exception breakpoints,
you'll see this little popover,
and there's a couple of knobs
that you can twist on here.
And the first knob that you can
twist is you can decide when or
the type of exception breakpoint.
Do you want to break on all exceptions?
Do you want to break just on
Objective-C or just C++ exceptions?
Typically, I just leave that on all.
That's the easier setting,
and that's the default.
Then you can also decide
when you want to break.
So do you want to break when
the exception is thrown,
or do you want to break when it's caught?
Now, the default is thrown,
and that's where I leave
this most of the time,
because that will-- then you'll
stop at the line of code that
actually caused the problem.
So that's probably where you want to be,
so I would just leave that on throw.
We're going to skip those
two options for now,
but we'll come back to them.
Now,
when we create a symbolic breakpoint,
we see this little popover.
And let's talk about what
a symbolic breakpoint is.
So a symbolic breakpoint lets
you specify a symbol name.
So that would be something
like a method or a function.
And when that method
or function is called,
we'll pause execution and
we'll stop you on the line of
code that's making that call.
Now, this is useful in cases where
you want to set a breakpoint,
but you don't have access
to the source code.
So if you want to stop on
malloc underscore debug,
you don't have the source code for that.
So you can't open it up in
the source code editor and
set a file in line breakpoint.
So you want to create a symbolic
breakpoint with that function name.
Now, you can also have a symbolic
breakpoint that resolves to
multiple places in your code.
So if you wanted to stop any time
draw rect was called across any class,
you could do that by putting
a symbol name of draw rect.
Now,
that would stop you in a lot of places,
but you can start to think about when
you can use this type of breakpoint.
Now, you can also specify the shared
library that you care about.
So if you know exactly what
shared library your symbol name
is in or the only shared library
that you care about to stop in,
you can specify that here.
Now, if you leave it blank,
we'll stop any time the symbol
is hit and we'll resolve it
across all shared libraries.
But you can whittle
it down if you'd like.
Okay, so we've seen how to create
symbolic and exception breakpoints,
which are both very, very useful.
But let's take a look at some
things that we can tweak about
just simple file breakpoints.
So the first thing we can do, well,
is edit it.
And this is a little-known
keyboard shortcut,
well, keyboard mouse shortcut.
So if you hold down Option and Command,
and then you click that
little blue breakpoint icon,
you'll get that nice little popover.
And you can do that either
from the breakpoint navigator,
or you can do that from
the source code editor.
That will shave at least a
few seconds off your day.
So the first thing we can
tweak here is the condition.
So if you have a line of code that's
hit in a lot of different scenarios
and there's only one particular
scenario that you care about,
well, you can articulate that by
entering in an expression.
And that expression will be, of course,
evaluated either to true or to false.
If it's evaluated to true,
we'll stop at that line of code.
False, we'll just pretend that it wasn't
even there and continue going.
So the expression is,
it's a line of code just like
you'd put in your source code.
Now,
you can also specify an ignore count,
and this is useful if you're debugging
drag-and-drop code or drawing code where
you just don't care about the first
50 times that a line of code is hit.
So you're dragging over,
and you only care when you
get to the drop target,
and it takes 50 times to hit
that line before you care,
so you just enter the number 50,
and then we'll skip the
breakpoint 50 times,
and time 51 will stop.
Now, the last option here gives you the
ability to automatically continue.
So, if you check that box after
we evaluate the breakpoint,
then we'll actually
automatically continue.
Now, by itself, that isn't particularly
useful to just keep going,
but when we combine that with the
next thing we're gonna talk about,
which is breakpoint actions,
we'll see how that can
become much more useful.
Now, breakpoint actions are-- they're
operations that are-- that are
run when a breakpoint is hit.
You can add one simply by
pressing that little guy there,
the Add Action button,
and subsequent actions
you can-- you can add.
So you can have any number
of actions on a breakpoint.
Typically, I have one to two.
That's about as many as
I find useful usually,
but you can have as many as you want.
And today we're going to talk
about five of the standard
breakpoint actions in Xcode,
starting with the debugger
command breakpoint action.
Now,
this action is probably the most useful.
You'll probably find
this one the most useful,
and it's also probably the most used.
And the way I use this is
I use this to get rid of that
NSLog statement in my code,
and I do that by something like this.
So instead of an NSLog,
I create an action that does a PO,
so that's the LLDB command
to print an object.
And then I just put my variable there,
and then oftentimes I'll
check automatically continue
so that I won't even stop.
Because usually I don't
really want to stop,
I just want to see the value.
So now I've added a logging
statement to my code without
adding a logging statement.
Now, you can actually get much fancier,
and in fact,
you could really add an NSLog
to your code if you wanted
without adding it to your code.
And you could do that by
running an expression.
So here I'm doing an expr.
That's the LLDB command
to run an expression.
And then I'm calling the NSLog function.
And then I'm passing it my variable,
just like I would do for my source code.
And now I've added a real NSLog
without even touching my code.
And I can do this all while I'm running.
And you can really get much
more sophisticated if you want.
So if you had a conditional
breakpoint and you met the condition,
then as one of the actions,
you could set subsequent breakpoints.
So you could chain breakpoints together.
And you could do that by running
the breakpoint set command and
then passing in the file and line.
So you can see here,
you have all the power
of the console in Xcode,
and you have that right here from
this simple little breakpoint action.
So you have a lot of power there.
Now, the next action is the log
message breakpoint action.
This is a very simple action,
and I typically use this to
just print out a simple message,
something like this.
Anything between at
signs is an expression,
and that will be evaluated for you.
If you use the %H macro,
we will replace that with the hit count.
There's also the %B macro,
which will print out the breakpoint name.
So I like to use this when
I care to find out how often
a line of code is being hit.
I'll just add one of these actions,
put the %H in there, and then I can see a
quick count in my console.
So then we have the shell
command breakpoint action.
Now, this one gives you a lot,
a lot of flexibility because you can do
anything that you can do from terminal,
you can do using this action
because it just runs a shell script.
So one usage I found for this is
to actually take a screen capture.
So I'll set a breakpoint on some
drawing code where I'm having a problem,
and then I'll kick off a screen capture,
and then I'll check the wait until
done box so that we finish the screen
capture before we continue evaluating.
And then now I can go and I can
inspect that screen capture
after I've continued evaluating,
and this is just a really,
really powerful, powerful way to debug.
So then we have the
sound breakpoint action,
which is probably my favorite action.
So, as you might guess,
this one plays a sound.
I like to use this when
I want to determine how
often a method is being hit.
So if I have some timer code and
that's calling a method and it
should be called every second,
well, I can quickly evaluate whether
that's working by setting
a sound breakpoint action,
and then I can just listen to it.
Now, you could, of course,
add logging to do the same thing,
but what I find is that there's
so much logging going on in our
apps that oftentimes it gets lost.
That message gets lost in there.
And so the sound breakpoint action,
it gives you another channel of
sensory information that you can
use to analyze the control flow,
and that's what we're trying to do here.
We're trying to better analyze and
more quickly analyze control flow,
so we have to use all the
tools that we have access to.
Now, as an added bonus,
any sounds that you put in
tilde library sounds will be
available to you from Xcode.
So that's your home directory.
And so you can have a
lot of fun with this one.
And then our last action is the
AppleScript breakpoint action.
Now, like the shell command action,
this one gives us a lot of
power and flexibility to do
things outside of Xcode itself.
So one usage I found for this is,
so say you have a long-running test.
It takes like three, four hours,
and there's a failure in there.
You know the line of code,
but you don't know how you're
getting into this case.
So you set a breakpoint,
and you add an AppleScript action,
and then you set it up to email you,
when that action is hit.
So now I can leave.
I can go do something else,
and then when I get an email
two hours later on my iPhone,
I can come back to work,
and then I can analyze the problem.
So you can get really creative,
and I encourage you to try all
these out and make yourself more
effective when you're debugging.
Now here to give us a quick
demo of breakpoints and
breakpoint actions is Alex.
Hi, my name's Alex Raftiis.
I'm an engineer on the UI debugger team.
And I'm here to show you some examples
of what Ken was just talking about.
So let me switch over to...
Our machine.
And first,
I want to give you a quick idea
of what we wrote to demo this.
And we chose to write a client-server
application because we also
wanted to show you that you
can actually debug two processes
running simultaneously in Xcode.
So I'll give you a quick
look at our project.
We have a workspace,
and here we see the three
projects we have in it.
First, we have a HIKES framework.
This framework contains our common object
model code and code that needs to be
shared between the client and server.
We have a HIKES iOS target here,
which is our application.
And then we have a HIKES server,
which is a Mac OS X application
that is responsible for
vending the hiking information.
Now, before I show you this running,
I wanted to give you an example
of Ken's favorite breakpoint.
So I'm going to use open quickly,
command-shift-O,
and bring up hikeserver.m.
And I'm going to go to line
207 here and set a breakpoint.
Now I'm going to use
option-command-click to edit that.
And I'm going to add an action here.
I'm going to choose the sound breakpoint
and have it play a ping sound.
I'm also going to have it automatically
continue evaluating after I'm done.
Now,
I've done this on the line of code where
when the client connects to the server,
this is the method that is called
and this is going to give me a ping.
In this case,
this is useful because frequently when
you're debugging a client and a server,
you'll find that you have the client
code actually displaying in the console,
not the server's console,
so you could very easily miss a log
message that something had happened.
So this will just let us
know that in fact the client
is connected to the server.
So let me go ahead and launch our server.
And let me go ahead
and launch the client.
Sorry, it sounded like I didn't have
all the internal speakers,
but my Mac Pro up here
just pinged for me.
So let me switch over to our iPad.
And here you can see
our application running.
I know that it connected
because I heard the ping,
so if I click on our hikes,
I expect to see data show up, and I do.
I can select the central coast here,
and I can select to see a hike.
There's the hike.
And this is showing me a hike on
the Montana de Oro Bluff Trail.
Now let me show you one more
thing to set up the next,
which is I'm going to go look
at the Cerro San Luis Trail,
and this time it gave me a world map,
so something seems to be going wrong.
So what can we do to try to figure
out what's going wrong with this?
So to diagnose this,
I'm going to set another breakpoint.
Again, it's going to be in HK server.m,
but this time at line 382.
Actually, it's gonna be at 383.
I'm gonna set a breakpoint here
and edit this breakpoint again.
This time, I'm gonna add an action.
And this action is going to be... Oops,
I zoomed out too far.
A debugger command,
which I'm going to drop in here.
And this debugger command, as Ken showed,
is going to run a log statement.
And it's just going to log
the map ID that the client's
requesting from the server.
I'm going to click to continue after
evaluating again and click done.
Zoom out,
come down here into the debugger area
and select the hike servers console.
I'm gonna go to the iPad
again and select the trail.
And you'll see here that, sure enough,
I asked for a map ID,
but I don't see anything.
So I want a little bit more
information about what's going on here.
And so certainly I could add
some more log statements and
recompile and all of that,
but I can do more.
We've actually, into our server,
built in a logging mechanism,
and that's where you're seeing
these info logs come from.
But we have a higher level of logging,
a debug level,
that'll give us a whole bunch of
information that we don't normally want
to run with because it would put so much
information in the console we'd just
lose any relevant information we wanted.
But I can come in here with a
debug command and an action,
but this time I'm going
to set a condition.
And in that condition,
as you can see here, I'm going to do map
ID is equal to string,
the CXPR unique identifier
that that map has.
That means that I'm only going to do this
action when that map ID request comes in.
I'm also going to set an
expression on this one.
Oops.
All right.
I'm going to add an action again.
Make sure the field's selected
and set an expression.
And this time,
I'm actually going to use the
LLDB expression command to assign
a new value into our log level.
I can do this directly to an instance
variable here because we're in
the scope of the HK server object,
so I have access to
its instance variables.
And log level four, of course,
is our debug level.
And click to automatically
continue after evaluating.
But I need to take one more step here,
which is also to come down here
and set another breakpoint because
I want to turn this log level off.
The whole point is not to have a ton
of log messages going to the console.
I only want the log
messages I care about.
So again, I need to set a condition.
In this condition, we'll be the same as
the one we did before.
I'm going to add an action.
And this action is going to be
simpler to what we did before,
but this time we're in
the scope of a block,
not actually in the scope
of our HK server object.
And because of that,
I don't have direct access to
the instance variables anymore.
But I can still change the log level
because I know our connection object,
which is in the scope of the block,
has a server delegate,
which is my server,
and I can just call the setLogLevel
method on the server object and
set the log level back to 3.
I'll set to automatically continue again.
And now I'm just going
to click on the map.
And you'll see here that, yeah,
we wrote some data,
so obviously the server thinks it's
sending something back to the client,
but I'm looking at this and I can
see the number of bytes written,
and it's not very much.
It's certainly not enough to
actually represent an entire hike.
So that makes me think that there
may be something wrong with my file.
So I'm going to come into my
maps here and select the map,
and sure enough, for some reason,
I have an empty KML document here.
So I'm just going to delete that.
Drop the correct KML data in here,
and this obviously looks
like a much better data file.
Save that.
Request the map again.
And this time you're going to see
that we actually wrote a whole
bunch more data out to the client.
So probably something's
going right this time.
Unfortunately, I'm seeing something
else wrong on the iPad,
so I'm not going to be able
to show you that trail.
But with that,
I've been able to show you that
without having to stop your client,
stopping your server, add a log command,
recompile your server,
relaunch your server,
relaunch your client, and get you back to
where you wanted to be,
you've been able to see that we've been
able to get all this kind of diagnostics
information out of the debugger.
So with that,
I'd like to turn it back over to Ken.
Thank you.
Thank you, Alex.
So we've seen how we can better
analyze control flow using
breakpoints and breakpoint actions.
Let's take a look at inspecting
our data in the variables view.
So the variables view,
it gives us a window onto our application
state at a given point in time.
Now, there are a number of different
viewing modes that we can use
when we're in the variables view.
So we have the auto mode.
Now, that's the default.
And in this mode,
we'll try to show you only the
relevant variables at the line
of code that you're stopped at.
So we'll look at the context,
try to filter out the noise,
and show you only the most useful stuff.
Then we have the local mode.
So that will show you all
the variables in local scope.
And then we have all.
So this will show you locals, registers,
globals.
It'll be a lot of information,
but it's there if you need to access it.
Then we have the variable kind.
So this is a nice little icon badge
which at a glance will tell you
what it is that you're looking at.
So am I looking at a local, an argument,
a static, a global, a regular register,
an instance variable, or an expression?
So a quick glance,
you can tell what you're looking at.
Then we have the name.
So this is the name of your variable
as it appears inside your code.
And then we have the dynamic type.
So the dynamic type is the
runtime type of your object.
So you may use an NSString in your code.
That's the static type.
But at runtime, you can see here,
like the title object is
actually an __nscsString.
You didn't put that in your code.
That's the runtime or dynamic type.
So another example of that is
maybe you're passing around
a shape object in your code.
That's the static type.
The runtime type would be something
like a circle or a rectangle,
the actual implementation.
Then we have the variables value.
So here it's a pointer,
but it could be something like
one or 5.3 if it's a primitive.
And then finally,
but certainly not least,
and we'll talk about
this more in a minute,
is the variable summary.
Before we talk about that,
I want to show you a new feature
in Xcode 4.4 in the variables view.
Have you ever found yourself
in a situation like this?
So here we have a method,
current process name string.
And that method,
it's building up this string.
So it's concatenating something together.
And then it's returning that.
And it's doing this all in a single line.
And then the calling method,
update label,
is just passing that right along.
And it's passing it to another method.
And at no point now do we have a
way that we can actually see the
value of current process name string.
Now, you may say, okay, well, yeah,
we can pull it out.
We can capture that in the variable.
But you shouldn't have to change
the way you're working in order
to get the tools to work for you.
So this is something that Xcode in
the variables view can do for you.
And now in Xcode 4.4, it can.
So here we can see that
if we set a breakpoint,
we hit this line of code,
we press the step out button,
We land in the calling line of code,
and now in the variables view,
you can see that we show
you this return value.
So...
We're giving you access to information
that you never had before and hopefully
we're shaving off one cycle on that
debugging iteration that you're doing.
So now let's go back to summaries.
So summaries show you the most important
piece of information about an object.
Now for an NSString,
that's the character data.
For an NSBundle,
it's the path to that bundle.
So it's--we're surfacing
information that we think that
you're probably going to need,
and we're doing that
in the variables view.
Now, it turns out in GDB,
we didn't actually have summaries
built into the debugger itself.
We provided them from Xcode,
but in order to do that,
we actually had to run
code like this many times.
Now, running code like this is not great,
and it's not great for a
couple of different reasons.
So, first,
Running any code can change
the state of your application.
So we're running this code
sort of behind your back,
and that might have side effects.
And the debugger should
never have side effects,
especially when you
don't know about them.
The second problem here is
that it may not always work.
So we're running code,
which means we may be allocating objects.
Now, if we're allocating objects,
then we need the malloc lock.
If the malloc lock is
taken by another thread,
then we're not going to
be able to get that lock.
Fortunately, the debugger was smart
enough to notice this,
and it wouldn't deadlock,
but you would end up with no
summary or summary unavailable.
So that's not good.
That's not useful for you.
Well, in LLDB, they've built summaries
directly into the debugger,
and they've done so in
a very extensible way.
So the summary generators actually
have access to the LLDB APIs.
So they can do things
like read memory directly.
And in fact, that's what the summary
for an NSString does.
It knows how the class is laid out,
and then it goes in and it reads
out the character data directly.
And this is great for a few reasons.
One, we're not running any code,
so we're not going to change
the state of your program.
Two, we're not running any code,
so we're not going to
need to take any locks,
so it's probably going
to work all the time.
And three, we're not running any code,
and reading memory is way faster,
so it's just an all-around win for you.
Now,
we have these great summaries built in,
and there's lots of built-in summaries.
But like I mentioned,
it's actually a very extensible system.
So now you have the ability to
write your own custom summaries,
which will show up right
in the variables view.
And so you can help yourself reduce
that debugging iteration cycle.
And I want to show you
quickly how to do that.
So the first thing you can do
is you can add a Python script.
So here I've added a Python script
named custom summaries.
Doesn't matter what you name it.
And then you actually
need to write this script.
Now,
I'm not gonna show you the whole thing,
but I do want to point
out a few key pieces.
So the first thing you need to do in this
Python script is you need to import LLDB.
So you need access to the LLDB APIs.
Now, then you need to define a function.
You can call the function
whatever you want,
but it's important that the function
has-- it takes two parameters.
So the first parameter
is this value object.
That's an SB value.
So that is an LLDB API object.
That represents your object at the point
where you're gonna be inspecting it.
And then there's the second parameter,
which is-- that's an internal
use-only LLDB parameter,
so you don't want to use that one.
And now we actually need
to implement that function.
So here I'm writing a
summary for an SKT circle.
And I'm not going to
show you the whole thing,
but I'll show you the
most important parts,
which is the beginning and then the end.
So what I've done is my SKT circle,
it has an IVAR.
And that IVAR is underscore bounds.
So I want to reach
into this value object,
which represents my SKT circle.
And I'm going to reach in and I'm going
to grab that underscore bounds IVAR.
Then I'm going to--
that's just an NSRect.
So that NSRect, of course, has a size.
So I'm going to reach
in and grab the size.
And then in the middle here,
I'm just doing some calculations.
So I'm figuring out the major radius,
the minor radius, and the area.
And then I'm building
that all into a string.
And then I'm returning that.
And that string that I return is what
we show you in the variables field.
So it's very easy to write your
own summary without running
any code and then provide that
right to the variables field.
So here to give us a
demo of this is Troy.
Thank you, Ken.
My name is Troy.
I'm an engineer on the Xcode team.
The purpose for me of using a
debugger is getting information
out of my application.
And really the best way
to get that information is
through the variables view.
So I'd like to give a
demonstration of how that works.
So I'm going to return to the same
application Alex was showing us.
As you recall, that's a hike application.
I'm going to be mostly dealing
with the client side of that.
So let me get that running.
Run the server.
and I will run the client in that.
Let's run it on the iPad.
How about that?
All right.
So as you remember,
we click into one of these
hikes and we get a hike.
I would like to know in any given
map whether or not these mile marker
points are being created successfully
and how many mile markers there are.
So I'm going to set a
break point in Xcode.
I happen to know that map is drawn
on the detail view controller,
so let's use open quickly to get to that.
and I'm going to use this new type
ahead filtering for the method selector
to get to the configure view method
and quickly jump to that where I happen
to know the points are being called.
The way the points are created
is we have this parser for the
KML files that Alex is showing us.
And so the first thing this method
does is check for the parser.
And then down here,
it queries the parser for the points.
So I'm going to set a breakpoint
there and refresh the data.
and hit that breakpoint.
So typically when you're debugging,
you don't know exactly
where you want to go,
so you set your breakpoint a step
higher and then step into the method.
So this is the method I want.
I'm going to step into that method.
All right.
First thing it does is
creates a mutable array,
it gets the place marks out of
our own place marks and gets a
point out of that place mark.
If that point is valid,
we're going to put it into the array,
which it is, so that was the first
thing I wanted to know.
So now I'm going to
jump out of that method.
Oh,
but I forgot to know -- I forgot to find
out how many points were being created.
This has typically been a problem because
the object we have here is a method call,
so we don't have an instance to
query in the -- to query directly.
So what could you do here?
You could -- You could
iterate over that loop,
but that's going to be tedious,
so we're not going to do that.
I could also copy this method call,
open up the console, and PO that value.
But as Ken said,
that might be changing the outcome of the
program running because this is a parser.
It might be reparsing things.
It might be changing
the number of points.
So we're not going to do that either.
Instead, I'd like to draw your attention
to this new return value,
which shows us that it's an NSRA,
and it shows us exactly how
many objects are in there.
Also,
we can control-click on this and send
the description of that return value
into the console so we can inspect
the individual elements right there,
which can be really useful.
Now I'd like to debug a real
problem in this application,
a real bug.
As you can see,
the master view controller
on this has a distance label,
but those distances
look completely wrong.
I don't know exactly how far it is to
some of these central coast places,
but I know 18 miles is not far enough.
So what's going on here?
I guess I got to go
set another breakpoint,
dive in, and see how I can fix that.
So that is in the master view controller,
but I know even better that cell is
being created in a delegate method,
which I can jump to directly
in this open quickly dialog.
So that's in the table view,
cell for row.
There it is.
That jumps me right to the right one.
So it goes through this
thing and down here,
after it gets the location,
it calculates the distance.
So let's set a breakpoint there.
And I'll reload this data.
Okay, so we have this object
which is being asked for the
distance from current location.
But this object is an HK map,
and as you can see down here,
it's just kind of an opaque object.
The only value it can
show us is the pointer.
So we would really like to add a custom
summary to that to make that more useful.
I happen to have a custom
Python summary over here in the project,
so let's take a look at
how that's put together.
First, we import the LLDB APIs,
which is important.
These APIs provide us things like this
get child member with name kind of stuff.
I'm not going to go through everything,
but also recognize that there's these two
important parameters to this function.
And down here at the bottom,
we have a special method which
LLDB will call for us when we
import this Python file into LLDB.
And what we want to do in
this function is add a type
summary for this HKMap object.
And that will tell LLDB that
whenever there's this HKMap object,
use this custom summary,
and Xcode knows how to use
that in the variables view.
And you'll also note that it
specifies which function to call,
And that's the same
name as the one up here.
So let's get back to our running code.
All I need to do is a command.
and Alex Farley.
Hi, everyone.
I'm Troy Koelling.
I'm the head of the Xcode
engineering team at the LLDB.
I'm going to show you how to do this.
I'm going to go ahead and
start with the script import.
You'll notice the auto-completion,
which helps with demo mistakes.
And I'm going to drag and drop that
custom hiked summary Python script in
here so we get the full path to this.
Now, of course,
you could drop this line into your
tilde slash dot LLDB init file,
and that will initialize
every time you run,
which is really helpful so you don't
have to do this manually every time.
But for the sake of this demo,
we're just going to do it
here on the command line.
Now when I open up the variables view,
the custom summary is right here,
giving us latitude, longitude,
and distance.
That distance doesn't
look completely right,
so let me try a different map real quick.
Okay,
the distance here is 315 kilometers.
That's nothing like the
18 miles we were seeing.
In fact, if I step over this line,
the distance,
the core location distance that this
map returns is also about 315,000,
this time it's in meters.
So those two numbers agree,
whereas our text label
was not agreeing at all.
Well, the text label comes in this
next line where it creates
a string from this function,
this helper function here.
So let's dive into that and
see what could be going wrong.
[Transcript missing]
and take a look at this map data.
I'll delete that one.
Here we're getting closer to 200 miles,
which is much more reasonable
for the amount of distance it is
from here to the Central Coast.
So all because of data formatters,
we were able to find, track down,
and fix a bug that would have taken
a lot longer in any other case.
Now I'd like to return it to Ken.
Thanks, Troy.
All right,
so now I want to show you a few
advanced debugging features.
And the first is one
that is new in Xcode 4.4,
and that's the ability to debug as root.
So you may need to debug as
root if you need to launch your
process as root because you
need access to privileged ports,
say, so ports below 1024,
the whole class of things you
may need access to as root.
And now you can do that by
bringing down the scheme sheet,
so you press Command-Less-Than.
And then you'll notice
this new option here.
So we're in the Run Action Info tab.
We see this option to launch and
run as root rather than the user
that I'm currently logged in as.
Now, running as root is also useful
when you're debugging XPC services,
because XPC services
often need privileges.
That's sometimes the point
of using XPC services.
And in fact,
I just want to briefly talk about them,
because I know they're new,
so maybe we're not all
familiar with those.
So an XPC service is a way to
offload logic from your app,
from your process,
and run that in another process.
So in this example here, I have my app,
and now I'm calling this third-party API,
which is a little bit crashy,
and then I also have this
privilege stuff that I want to do.
Well, it's actually much better if I can
pull that out into XPC services,
because now what I can do is my
crashy bits there that I'm calling
will no longer take down my app.
I can then respond to the crash
of the XPC service rather than
have the user see Crash Tracer.
So I can react to the
crash of the XPC service,
either show a message to the user
or just call the method again,
try it again.
Now, also, if I want to do some
privileged operations,
and I don't want to escalate my
entire app to have those privileges,
I can pull that all out into an
XPC service and just have that one little
bit that gets escalated privileges.
Now, these, by design, of course,
are running, these XPC services are
running in a separate process.
So you may be able to do that.
You may be thinking, okay,
how am I going to debug these from Xcode?
Because these processes are, in fact,
launched not by Xcode,
but they're launched automatically
behind the scenes for you by LaunchD.
So how is Xcode going to know about this?
Well, it turns out that there's actually
a very easy workflow for this,
and here to give us a demo of
that workflow and debugging
as root in general is Hanming.
and James Han-Minng Ong.
And I'm here to show you the two
things that Ken mentioned about.
We're a little bit short on time,
so let's dive right into it.
So first thing I want to show
you is debugging as root.
I have the map server
chosen in my scheme editor,
scheme chooser.
Let's go ahead and run it.
So immediately you will see that
you actually have a-- you don't have
permissions to run the root server,
the map server,
because you don't have access to
some of the privileged assets,
in this case, a port below 1024.
Now, this is fairly typical
of a server that you run,
because, you know,
they need access to privileged access.
The reason why you're getting the
error is because-- in this case,
with Xcode,
it's because Xcode set it up such
that you're running as yourself,
which is the right thing to do
for the majority of the time.
So to fix that... we'll bring
down the Scheme Editor...
for the--for this scheme,
and we'll just switch to root.
So you'll be asked to
authenticate as the main user.
And voila, in this case,
you're running as root now.
So let me switch gears a little bit
and talk about debugging as XPC.
Now, the way we wrote the map server
is that we compressed the data
on the server side and sent it to
the client for efficiency reasons.
So imagine this scenario that
you are given this super-duper
compression library that
compresses 99.99% of the data.
But you're not sure about its stability,
so you don't want to do it
in such a way that if your
compression service goes down,
your server goes down.
Because, you know,
your server is earning you these billions
of dollars that I've read about on the
internet and needs to stay up because
you've got a mortgage to pay and stuff.
This is a good scenario in which,
can't say you partition
the XPC service out.
If it crashes,
your server deals with it and, you know,
use the old way.
So I'm not going to go through all
the details of how we wrote it,
but just want to point out a
couple of interesting things.
We did it by adding a target, XPC target,
service target, to our frameworks.
And you can see that Xcode
by default gives you a pretty
nice XPC service bundle.
We chose that.
Give us a main.m file,
which is mainly boilerplates.
The section you have to do
is to handle the message.
In our case, we compress it up and send
it back to the caller.
The color in our case is the map server.
So it gets hold of the XPC servers
by its well-known name.
Sensor the data and expects the
compressed bytes to come back.
So I have my server running,
so let's go ahead and run the client.
All right, nothing came back.
So the only thing I added
was the XPC service,
so I must have screwed up, right?
So let's debug that.
To debug the XPC service,
We choose the scheme,
bring down the scheme editor.
Let's choose the binary
of the XPC service.
So bear in mind that the map
server is the one that's asking
launchd to launch the XPC service,
and because the map
server is running as root,
you need to debug as root.
So Xcode in this case is not launching,
so Xcode has to wait for it.
Let's go ahead and wait for it.
You can see an activity viewer.
That's what we're doing.
Let's run the server.
And let's put a break point
here where I want to debug
the why is it not compressing.
are sending us data back.
Server is running.
Let's run the client.
I'm not going to switch back to the iPad.
I'm just going to trigger the breakpoint.
All right, so as you can see,
I've hit the breakpoint.
Let's step through it.
So here I'm getting the data over,
and I'm getting zero bytes.
So let's see what I--
let's look at the color.
Here's how I send it over.
So there's a typo error.
When I'm sending the bytes
over from the caller,
I'm using the keyword bytes.
And on the receiver, I'm using my bytes.
So if you were smarter than me,
you would have to abstract this out
into a .h file so that it's shared
between the caller and the colleague.
Let's fix that.
Recompile.
[Transcript missing]
Okay, let's step through.
All right, this time I'm getting,
I think the right number of bytes.
Continue.
Switch you back to the iPad to
prove that it actually works.
There you go.
Here's my map.
With that,
I'm going to hand you back to Ken.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Han-Ming.
Okay, so you can find more information
out about especially the
LLDB custom summaries,
and I encourage you to check these out.
This is a great way to help
yourself debug your own code.
So LLDB.LVM.org,
you can find out about custom summaries,
scripting, LLDB in general.
There are a few related sessions,
and whether you're watching
at home or whether you're here
with us at the conference,
I encourage you to check these out.
There are, in fact,
a couple more Xcode labs and LLDB labs.
In fact, there's one right after this.
So today we've seen how we can eliminate
some of the waste in our everyday,
ordinary debugging.
We've seen how we can more quickly
get access to the information
it is that we're looking for.
And I hope you can take just a
couple of the things back that
we showed you and incorporate
those into your everyday workflow,
and that will save you time.
Thank you very much.